# Viewing and Creating Custom Reports
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/01270a828ec846731411368326ba58114adda98e/source/creating_custom_reports.md" class="reference">28 Oct 2025</a>

<a href="es/creating_custom_reports.html">Leer en español</a> | <a href="fr/creating_custom_reports.html">Lire en français</a> | <a href="ar/creating_custom_reports.html">اقرأ باللغة العربية</a>

**Last updated:**
<a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/511ea4cb3c698a4b45e7c2b4efd1af4e356e811f/source/creating_custom_reports.md" class="reference">15
Feb 2022</a>

## Learn how to navigate and manage the data in the Reports page.

On the Reports page in the Data section of your project, you can create and
configure multiple summary reports with custom graphs, tables, and color
schemes. The custom reports are shareable by either printing, saving as a PDF,
or storing them on an external cloud service.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/chart.jpg)

**1. Custom Reports:**

The **CUSTOM REPORTS** allow you to view the **Default Report** based on the
dataset available in your survey project. It also allows you to **Create New
Report** (by giving it a unique title and selecting which questions to include
or exclude) or search through previously created custom reports.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/custom_report.jpg)

**2. Edit Report Style:**

The **Edit Report Style** button allows you to change the **CHART TYPE** to
Vertical, Donut, Area, Horizontal, Pie and Line.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/report_style.png)

It also allows you to choose different **COLORS** for your charts.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/style_color.png)

You can also group the charts by different categorical variables available in
your dataset by selecting **GROUP BY** and selecting a variable from the
provided list. _Please note: If a variable has more than 5 choices, KoboToolbox
would create a chart displaying only 5 choices lumping the rest together as …_

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/group_by.png)

Or you could also change the label of your charts to different languages
available on your survey project by selecting **TRANSLATION**. _(This tab will
only appear if you have multiple languages in your survey project)_

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/translation.png)

**3. Print:** You could also print the custom report by clicking the **Print**
icon or save it as PDF by selecting **Save as PDF** under **Destination**.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/print.png)

You could also store the same to an external cloud storage service like Google
Drive.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/destination.png)

**4. Toggle full screen:**

You could Press **Toggle full screen** to view the custom reports in a full
screen or press back the **Toggle full screen** to view it to in a normal mode.

**5. Override Graph Style:**

You could click the **Override Graph Style** _(3 dot icon)_ to customize the
**CHART TYPE** and **COLORS** of the chart for each variables (questions) within
your custom reports. This will override the graph style **(for a question)**
that has been defined by **Edit Report Style** in your custom report that has
been explained above.

![image](/images/creating_custom_reports/question_style.png)
