source/deploy_form_new_project.md, before:

# Deploying a Form to Start a New Data Collection Project
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/7fc2f56af1acc518c3a5af755bf673e9c92c79da/source/deploy_form_new_project.md" class="reference">7 Jul 2025</a>

Once you are ready to begin starting or piloting your data collection for a
particular project, click the **Deploy** button to make the form live and allow
data collection to begin.

You can edit your form as many times as you like by clicking on the pencil icon
**(1)**, which takes you to the formbuilder, or by downloading the XLSForm and
replace the form **(2)** after you make the needed changes.

![image](/images/deploy_form_new_project/deploy.jpg)

## Redeploying your form

You can save and deploy your project, make edits, and then redeploy your form to
make the changes live - as many times as you like.

You will be prompted to redeploy your form when you have made changes to your
form that are not yet public.

![image](/images/deploy_form_new_project/redeploy.jpg)

After redeploying your form to make the changes live, you will then have access
to the previous versions of your form, which can be cloned to create new
projects.

![image](/images/deploy_form_new_project/previous_versions.png)

## Using KoboCollect

If you are using KoboCollect on an Android device and you redeploy your form,
you will need to delete your old blank form on your device and redo the
[get blank form](kobocollect_on_android_latest.md) process with internet access to update
the form to the latest version.

Commit message:

Update KoboCollect instructions for redeploying forms

source/deploy_form_new_project.md, after:

# Deploying a Form to Start a New Data Collection Project
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/7fc2f56af1acc518c3a5af755bf673e9c92c79da/source/deploy_form_new_project.md" class="reference">7 Jul 2025</a>

Once you are ready to begin starting or piloting your data collection for a
particular project, click the **Deploy** button to make the form live and allow
data collection to begin.

You can edit your form as many times as you like by clicking on the pencil icon
**(1)**, which takes you to the formbuilder, or by downloading the XLSForm and
replace the form **(2)** after you make the needed changes.

![image](/images/deploy_form_new_project/deploy.jpg)

## Redeploying your form

You can save and deploy your project, make edits, and then redeploy your form to
make the changes live - as many times as you like.

You will be prompted to redeploy your form when you have made changes to your
form that are not yet public.

![image](/images/deploy_form_new_project/redeploy.jpg)

After redeploying your form to make the changes live, you will then have access
to the previous versions of your form, which can be cloned to create new
projects.

![image](/images/deploy_form_new_project/previous_versions.png)

## Using KoboCollect

If you are using [KoboCollect](https://support.kobotoolbox.org/kobocollect_on_android_latest.html) on an Android device and you redeploy your form,
you will need to [download the latest version](https://support.kobotoolbox.org/data_collection_kobocollect.html#downloading-forms) of the form when connected to the internet to use the updated version.
