# Recommended Devices for Data Collection
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/a19866f2bcf05d3646beb9350085d33adfe39f89/source/devices_for_data_collection.md" class="reference">24 Sep 2025</a>

KoboCollect can run on any Android device, whether tablet or phone, as long as
they run Android 2.1 (which was released on January 2010) or above. Web forms
will run on any device, including Apple iOS devices and laptops. This article is
about choosing the right mobile device for field data collection and applies to
both Android devices and non-Android devices.

Recommending devices for field data collection is difficult due to the large
number of available devices, each with different features and advantages. When
choosing a device you need to weigh the importance of screen quality,
durability, battery capacity, camera (consider whether you'll need front-facing,
back-facing, or both), internal storage and memory, internal sensors (GPS,
movement), connectivity options (WiFi, cellular, BlueTooth, ...), weight, etc.

<p class="note">
    To learn more about connecting KoboCollect to your KoboToolbox account, configuring KoboCollect settings, and collecting data with the app, see <a href="https://support.kobotoolbox.org/kobocollect_on_android_latest.html">Getting started with KoboCollect</a>, <a href="https://support.kobotoolbox.org/kobocollect_settings.html">Customizing KoboCollect settings</a> and <a href="https://support.kobotoolbox.org/data_collection_kobocollect.html">Data collection using KoboCollect</a>.
</p>

## Phones vs. Tablets

An important choice early on is whether to choose a phone or a tablet. Phones
have the advantage of also having cellular data connectivity, which a lot of
tablets don't support. This allows synchronizing data while cell phone service
is available and not depending on WiFi networks. Cell phone service is not an
option in many remote field settings, of course, though this may be attractive
when working in urban locations or areas with high cell phone service coverage.

In general, try to achieve a good balance between acceptable pricing and
choosing devices that can be re-used in the field for multiple deployments. The
same reasoning as for choosing other IT equipment should apply.

When choosing a cell phone, ensure that the chosen model supports the
frequencies available in the country of deployment. Choosing phones that are
unlocked and that use multiple frequencies (quad band) are ideal for this
purpose.

## Pricing

Mobile devices for field data collection do not have to be expensive and it is
not necessary or recommended to choose latest-generation phones or tablets
(which often range above $400 for tablets and over $600 for phones). These
devices tend to be equipped with all the latest technology which means that they
will not be outdated technologically for a long time. However, their high costs
also makes them a bigger inventory risk for potential theft or damages.

Likewise, it is best not to choose among the lowest tier of devices from
little-known manufacturers or fake brands (available for less than $100), often
sold in emerging markets. These devices may present serious drawbacks in terms
of their durability which can negatively impact data collection.
