source/external_file.md, before:

# Select One or Many From External File Question Type
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/47cbc8887d6df73ef3bf760d5a3962b77ab26ed8/source/external_file.md" class="reference">29 Jul 2025</a>

In some cases, it may be desirable to host a list of choice options in an
external file, rather than directly in the project XLSForm. For example, a long
list of choices (e.g. hundreds or thousands) could slow down the loading and
navigation of the form, or adding new choice options after data collection has
begun could sometimes be troublesome.

This article provides a detailed example and method for creating a `select_one`
or `select_many` question type with the choice list in a separate, external
file. Refer to the
[XLSForm documentation](https://xlsform.org/en/#multiple-choice-from-file) for
more information.

**1.** In the XLSForm, the type should be either
`select_one_from_file [filename]` or `select_multiple_from_file [filename]`:

<p class="note">The file-type can be either <code>CSV</code> or <code>XML</code></p>

**survey sheet**

| type                            | name   | label                         |
| :------------------------------ | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| text                            | name   | What is your name?            |
| select_one sex                  | sex    | What is your sex?             |
| select_one_from_file fruits.csv | fruits | What is your favourite fruit? |
| survey |

**choices sheet**

| list_name | name | label  |
| :-------- | :--- | :----- |
| sex       | 1    | Male   |
| sex       | 2    | Female |
| choices |

<p class="note">The <code>fruits.csv</code> is the file name containing the choices for the question "What is your favorite fruit?".</p>

**2.** Create a new `CSV` file and structure it the same as the `choices` sheet
in the XLSForm:

**fruits.csv**

| list_name | name | label       |
| :-------- | :--- | :---------- |
| fruits    | 1    | Apple       |
| fruits    | 2    | Watermelon  |
| fruits    | 3    | Orange      |
| fruits    | 4    | Pear        |
| fruits    | 5    | Cherry      |
| fruits    | 6    | Strawberry  |
| fruits    | 7    | Nectarine   |
| fruits    | 8    | Grape       |
| fruits    | 9    | Mango       |
| fruits    | 10   | Blueberry   |
| fruits    | 11   | Pomegranate |

**3.** Upload and deploy the XLSForm in KoboToolbox.

**4.** Upload the `CSV` file the same way you would
[add a media file to the form](media.md)

Commit message:

Update external_file.md with Formbuilder instructions (#444)
Added note about setting up Select One or Many questions in Formbuilder.

source/external_file.md, after:

# Select One or Many From External File Question Type
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/47cbc8887d6df73ef3bf760d5a3962b77ab26ed8/source/external_file.md" class="reference">29 Jul 2025</a>

In some cases, it may be desirable to host a list of choice options in an
external file, rather than directly in the project XLSForm. For example, a long
list of choices (e.g. hundreds or thousands) could slow down the loading and
navigation of the form, or adding new choice options after data collection has
begun could sometimes be troublesome.

<p class="note"> <b>Note:</b> This article covers steps for setting up Select One or Many From External File questions in XLSForm. To set up these questions in the Formbuilder, you must first upload the external choice file to KoboToolbox, in the <b>Media</b> tab of the <b>SETTINGS</b> page. Once the file has been uploaded, the Select One or Many From External File question types will appear in the Formbuilder. </p>

![image](/images/external_file/select_from_file.png)

This article provides a detailed example and method for creating a `select_one`
or `select_many` question type with the choice list in a separate, external
file. Refer to the
[XLSForm documentation](https://xlsform.org/en/#multiple-choice-from-file) for
more information.

**1.** In the XLSForm, the type should be either
`select_one_from_file [filename]` or `select_multiple_from_file [filename]`:

<p class="note">The file-type can be either <code>CSV</code> or <code>XML</code></p>

**survey sheet**

| type                            | name   | label                         |
| :------------------------------ | :----- | :---------------------------- |
| text                            | name   | What is your name?            |
| select_one sex                  | sex    | What is your sex?             |
| select_one_from_file fruits.csv | fruits | What is your favourite fruit? |
| survey |

**choices sheet**

| list_name | name | label  |
| :-------- | :--- | :----- |
| sex       | 1    | Male   |
| sex       | 2    | Female |
| choices |

<p class="note">The <code>fruits.csv</code> is the file name containing the choices for the question "What is your favorite fruit?".</p>

**2.** Create a new `CSV` file and structure it the same as the `choices` sheet
in the XLSForm:

**fruits.csv**

| list_name | name | label       |
| :-------- | :--- | :---------- |
| fruits    | 1    | Apple       |
| fruits    | 2    | Watermelon  |
| fruits    | 3    | Orange      |
| fruits    | 4    | Pear        |
| fruits    | 5    | Cherry      |
| fruits    | 6    | Strawberry  |
| fruits    | 7    | Nectarine   |
| fruits    | 8    | Grape       |
| fruits    | 9    | Mango       |
| fruits    | 10   | Blueberry   |
| fruits    | 11   | Pomegranate |

**3.** Upload and deploy the XLSForm in KoboToolbox.

**4.** Upload the `CSV` file the same way you would
[add a media file to the form](media.md)
