source/gdpr.md, before:

# General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/5c33bf8fbd4550f031cd19567502861063b1d88b/source/gdpr.md" class="reference">19 Jan 2022</a>

## What is GDPR?

GDPR stands for [General Data Protection Regulation](https://gdpr-info.eu) and is a new comprehensive data protection law in the EU that replaces existing laws to strengthen the protection of personal data and the rights of the individual. It is a single set of rules, directly enforceable in each EU member state.

## Security and Privacy at KoBoToolbox

At KoBoToolbox, we take the security and privacy of our user's information very seriously. Our users and partners expect no less from our service, and we are continuously investing in it.

We are constantly monitoring and improving KoBoToolbox to create a robust security framework that allows us to meet the growing needs of the industry.

You can learn more about security at KoBoToolbox in [this support article](is_my_data_safe.md), or you can email our Support Team at [support@kobotoolbox.org](mailto:support@kobotoolbox.org).

Our team will never access your data unless you have given us explicit access to it. However, to have complete control and ownership of your data, you are also free to install your own instance of KoBoToolbox on your own server.

## Requesting to be Forgotten

If you would like us to delete all of your project data, including your KoBoToolbox account, please contact the Support Team and mention 'GDPR Request to be Forgotten.'

Commit message:

use Kobo everywhere instead of KoBo

source/gdpr.md, after:

# General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/5c33bf8fbd4550f031cd19567502861063b1d88b/source/gdpr.md" class="reference">19 Jan 2022</a>

## What is GDPR?

GDPR stands for [General Data Protection Regulation](https://gdpr-info.eu) and is a new comprehensive data protection law in the EU that replaces existing laws to strengthen the protection of personal data and the rights of the individual. It is a single set of rules, directly enforceable in each EU member state.

## Security and Privacy at KoboToolbox

At KoboToolbox, we take the security and privacy of our user's information very seriously. Our users and partners expect no less from our service, and we are continuously investing in it.

We are constantly monitoring and improving KoboToolbox to create a robust security framework that allows us to meet the growing needs of the industry.

You can learn more about security at KoboToolbox in [this support article](is_my_data_safe.md), or you can email our Support Team at [support@kobotoolbox.org](mailto:support@kobotoolbox.org).

Our team will never access your data unless you have given us explicit access to it. However, to have complete control and ownership of your data, you are also free to install your own instance of KoboToolbox on your own server.

## Requesting to be Forgotten

If you would like us to delete all of your project data, including your KoboToolbox account, please contact the Support Team and mention 'GDPR Request to be Forgotten.'
