source/index.rst, before:

Topics
======

Search the knowledge base, browse our resources and visit our forum for more detail information

.. README: please don't change name or caption of TOCs - they are used for 
.. JavaScript code and for properly building the custom section pages. 
.. If you need to change them, please contact a developer :-*

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Getting Started
  :name: home-page-toc-getting-started
  
  welcome
  quick_start
  server
  is_my_data_safe  
  activation_link
  reset_password
  gdpr
  training_arabic
  training_french

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Creating Forms
  :name: home-page-toc-creating-forms

  new_form
  edit_forms_excel
  xls_url
  formbuilder
  question_types
  question_options
  skip_logic
  validation_criteria
  rating_ranking
  calculate_questions
  advanced_calculate
  video_question_type
  matrix_response
  responses_inside_question
  number_text_responses
  user_specified_other
  media
  add_logo
  cascading_select
  group_repeat
  restrict_responses
  p_codes
  unique_serial_numbers
  pull_data_kobotoolbox
  audit_logging
  collecting_signatures
  language_dashboard
  language_xls
  form_meta
  encrypting_forms
  custom_format_web
  enketo
  alternative_enketo
  hxl
  lower_file_size
  deploy_form_new_project
  question_library
  external_file
  library_locking

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Collecting Data
  :name: home-page-toc-collecting-data

  data-collection-tools
  recording-interviews
  data_through_webforms
  data-offline
  kobocollect-android
  devices_for_data_collection
  hipaa_compliance
  troubleshooting_kobocollect
  troubleshooting_webforms
  manual_upload
  collect_gps
  
.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Managing Projects and Data
  :name: home-page-toc-managing-projects
  
  project_summary
  record_validation
  delete_project
  stuck_in_pending
  export_download
  archiving_projects
  rest_services
  managing_permissions
  creating_custom_reports
  export_gps
  pulling_data_into_excelquery
  howto_edit_single_submissions
  howto_edit_multiple_submissions
  photo_download
  recovering_previous_formdata
  converting_to_spss_and_stata
  excel_analyzer_guide
  pulling_data_into_powerbi
  upload_to_gis
  row_level_permissions
  dynamic_data_attachment
  using_public_collections
  public_collections_advanced_search
  api
  data_storage

  
.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: KoBoToolbox on Your Computer or Server
  :name: home-page-toc-computer-server
  
  software_architecture
  kobo_local_computer
  kobo_your_servers

Commit message:

add `kobocollect_on_android_basic` article and media

source/index.rst, after:

Topics
======

Search the knowledge base, browse our resources and visit our forum for more detail information

.. README: please don't change name or caption of TOCs - they are used for 
.. JavaScript code and for properly building the custom section pages. 
.. If you need to change them, please contact a developer :-*

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Getting Started
  :name: home-page-toc-getting-started
  
  welcome
  quick_start
  server
  is_my_data_safe  
  activation_link
  reset_password
  gdpr
  training_arabic
  training_french

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Creating Forms
  :name: home-page-toc-creating-forms

  new_form
  edit_forms_excel
  xls_url
  formbuilder
  question_types
  question_options
  skip_logic
  validation_criteria
  rating_ranking
  calculate_questions
  advanced_calculate
  video_question_type
  matrix_response
  responses_inside_question
  number_text_responses
  user_specified_other
  media
  add_logo
  cascading_select
  group_repeat
  restrict_responses
  p_codes
  unique_serial_numbers
  pull_data_kobotoolbox
  audit_logging
  collecting_signatures
  language_dashboard
  language_xls
  form_meta
  encrypting_forms
  custom_format_web
  enketo
  alternative_enketo
  hxl
  lower_file_size
  deploy_form_new_project
  question_library
  external_file
  library_locking

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Collecting Data
  :name: home-page-toc-collecting-data

  data-collection-tools
  recording-interviews
  data_through_webforms
  data-offline
  kobocollect-android
  kobocollect_on_android_basic
  kobocollect_on_android_advanced
  kobocollect_on_android_old
  devices_for_data_collection
  hipaa_compliance
  troubleshooting_kobocollect
  troubleshooting_webforms
  manual_upload
  collect_gps
  
.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Managing Projects and Data
  :name: home-page-toc-managing-projects
  
  project_summary
  record_validation
  delete_project
  stuck_in_pending
  export_download
  archiving_projects
  rest_services
  managing_permissions
  creating_custom_reports
  export_gps
  pulling_data_into_excelquery
  howto_edit_single_submissions
  howto_edit_multiple_submissions
  photo_download
  recovering_previous_formdata
  converting_to_spss_and_stata
  excel_analyzer_guide
  pulling_data_into_powerbi
  upload_to_gis
  row_level_permissions
  dynamic_data_attachment
  using_public_collections
  public_collections_advanced_search
  api
  data_storage

  
.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: KoBoToolbox on Your Computer or Server
  :name: home-page-toc-computer-server
  
  software_architecture
  kobo_local_computer
  kobo_your_servers
