source/new_form.md, before:

# Creating a New Form

To create a new form, click the **NEW** button on the **Project List View** (the
first screen after logging in to KoboToolbox).

You will be presented with 4 different options for creating your new form:

a. **Build from scratch** Choose this option if you want to build your form
using the formbuilder. After selecting this option, you will be required to
input the project details. After entering them, click **CREATE PROJECT**.

b. **Use a template** Use this option if you have a template in the Library
section that you would like to build upon using the formbuilder. Learn more
about the Library section [here](question_library.md)

c. **Upload an XLSForm** Import an existing form from an external file in the
[XLSForm format](http://xlsform.org/en). for example when sharing form drafts
between colleagues. You can learn more about creating forms using the XLSForm
standard [here](getting_started_xlsform.md).

d. **Import an XLSForm via URL** Use this option to import an XLSForm file that
is being hosted online, for example Google Sheets or Dropbox. For instructions,
visit [Importing an XLSForm via URL](xls_url.md).

![image](/images/new_project/create_new.gif)

## The Project List View

The **Project List View** shows all of the projects that you have been created,
and those shared with your account. To open a project, just click on its title.
In this view, you can also organize your projects (add project tags, archive, or
delete), download a project's form, or clone the form to use in a new project.

To open a project for editing in the formbuilder: Move your mouse over the title
of the project Click the <i class="k-icon k-icon-edit"></i> Edit button.

![image](/images/new_project/list_view.gif)

Commit message:

minor edits to new_form page

source/new_form.md, after:

# Creating a New Form

To create a new form, click the **NEW** button in the **Projects** tab (the
first screen after logging in to KoboToolbox).

You will be presented with 4 different options for creating your new form:

1. **Build from scratch**: Choose this option if you want to build your form
   using the formbuilder. After selecting this option, you will be required to
   input the project details, then click **CREATE PROJECT**.

1. **Use a template**: Use this option if you already have a template in your
   **Library** and would like to build upon it using the formbuilder or deploy
   it as is. Learn more about the **Library** [here](question_library.md).

1. **Upload an XLSForm**: Import an existing [XLSForm](http://xlsform.org/en).
   You can learn more about getting started with XLSForm
   [here](getting_started_xlsform.md).

1. **Import an XLSForm via URL**: Use this option to import an XLSForm file that
   is being hosted online, for example Google Sheets or Dropbox. Refer
   [here](xls_url.md) for more details.

![image](/images/new_project/create_new.gif)

## Projects list

The **Projects** tab shows all your projects in a single list: _deployed_,
_draft_ and _archived_, as well as projects _shared_ with you. To view a details
for a specific project, you can click on the item in the list and you will be
directed to its landing page. In this view, you can also organize your projects
(add tags, archive, or delete), download a project's XLSForm, clone the form to
use in a new project, and more.

To open a project for editing in the formbuilder, hover your cursor over the
title of the project and click the <i class="k-icon k-icon-edit"></i> Edit
button.

![image](/images/new_project/list_view.gif)
