source/skip_logic.md, before:

# Adding Skip Logic
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/dca44bd6726480d038500d88ab4b8d7d39107d79/source/skip_logic.md" class="reference">25 Jul 2020</a>

Skip logic is also sometimes referred to as 'branching' or 'relevant conditions'. By default, all questions are always visible. Skip logic controls which question should be displayed only if a certain condition (or conditions) is fulfilled. Conditions are always applied to the question or group that should be sometimes hidden, sometimes visible. (This is important, as many paper surveys approach the problem from the other direction, writing things like "If yes, go to question 35".)

Conditions can be added to each question by clicking on Settings inside the question card, then Skip Logic. There are two ways to add a skip logic condition:

**1. Add a condition: Use the skip logic wizard to help you build your conditions**

   ![image](/images/skip_logic/condition.gif)

   Example

   Q1: Are you currently in school?  
   Q2: What's your school level?
   Q3: Which grade are you in?
   

   You would want to display the third question only if the respondent answers 'Yes' to the first question. The correct skip logic condition should display: 

   Q1: Are you currently in school? = Yes

   You can delete skip logic conditions by clicking on the trash can symbol.

   To add multiple conditions, add your first one, then click on the 'Add a condition' button. When using two or more conditions, be sure to choose between the two options whether the question should match any (at least one) of these criteria, or all of them.

**2. Manually enter your skip logic in XLSForm code**

   ![image](/images/skip_logic/code.jpg)
   
   Example

   Q1. Do you rear animals?  
   Q2. Which of these animals do you own?  
   Q3. Kindly type the main breed of dog you own?   

   You would want to display Q2 if Q1 is Yes, so you would need to add the following condition on the relevant column  
              ${Q1} = '1' or ${Q1} = 'Yes'

   Note: This depends on whether the response item is labelled as Yes for Yes or 1 for Yes as in our example

   Q3 will only be displayed if Q2 has Dogs as one of the response items. Since Q2 is a multiple response then you would add this condition in the relevant columns for Q3.  
            selected(${Q2}, 'Dogs')

Commit message:

Update skip logic documentation
Updated the skip logic documentation to clarify terminology and improve instructions.

source/skip_logic.md, after:

# Adding skip logic in the Formbuilder
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/dca44bd6726480d038500d88ab4b8d7d39107d79/source/skip_logic.md" class="reference">25 Jul 2020</a>

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uLSnoG0mqV4?si=63o4YeQUZWOsZmfF" style="width: 100%; aspect-ratio: 16 / 9; height: auto; border: 0;" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Skip logic, also known as branching or relevance conditions, controls which questions are displayed in a form. By default, all questions are visible. Skip logic determines under which condition(s) a question should appear. Skip logic conditions are always applied to the question or group that should be conditionally visible.

<p class="note">
    <strong>Note:</strong> You can apply skip logic to entire <a href="group_repeat.html">question groups</a> as well as individual questions. This can simplify form logic and make it easier to manage complex questionnaires.
</p>

There are two methods for adding skip logic in the Formbuilder: adding a condition via the **skip logic builder**, or manually entering skip logic in **XLSForm code**.

## Adding a condition

This first method allows you to use the skip logic builder to add your conditions. It is recommended for beginners. To add a skip logic condition, follow these steps:

1. Open the <i class="k-icon-settings"></i> **Settings** in the right side menu of the question or group to be conditionally displayed.
2. Select **Skip Logic**, and click **Add a condition**.
3. Select the question in the form that will determine whether the current question is displayed or not. 
4. Choose the appropriate logic operator for your condition (e.g., >, =, !=). 
5. In the **response value** field, select or type in the response that is required for the condition to be met. 

The question will be displayed only when the specified condition is met.

To add multiple conditions, add your first condition, then click the **Add another condition** button. When using multiple conditions, specify whether at least one of these conditions must be met or all of them.

<p class="note">
    <strong>Note:</strong> You can delete skip logic conditions by clicking on the <i class="k-icon-trash"></i> trash can.
</p>

## Manually entering skip logic in XLSForm code
For advanced users, skip logic can be entered directly in XLSForm code. The basic structure of the conditions remains unchanged: you will need to identify the controlling question, choose a logic operator, and type in the required response value. 

To manually enter skip logic in XLSForm code, follow these steps:
1. Open the <i class="k-icon-settings"></i> **Settings** in the right side menu of the question or group to be conditionally displayed.
2. Select **Skip Logic**, and click **Manually enter your skip logic in XLSForm code**.
3. Enter the condition in XLSForm code.

In XLSForm code, questions are referred to by their **question name** (Data Column Name) using the format `${question_name}`. For example, if Q2 should be asked only if the answer to Q1 is "Yes", the skip logic condition for Q2 would be `${Q1} = ‘yes’`.

<p class="note">
    For more information on XLSForm code and operators, see <a href="https://xlsform.org/en/#relevant">XLSForm documentation</a>.
</p>
