source/welcome.md, before:

# Welcome to KoBoToolbox
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/cdd867e3c5466d18c5635dffa16cdf2ec894f933/source/welcome.md" class="reference">19 Jul 2020</a>

## What is KoBoToolbox?

KoBoToolbox is a suite of tools for field data collection for use in challenging environments. Our software is **free and open source** and **works both on and offline**. Most of our users are people working in humanitarian crises, as well as aid professionals and researchers working in developing countries. Our team of developers, designers, and researchers are based in Cambridge, MA and many other places around the world.

## What languages are supported?

You can create KoBoToolbox projects in many languages, from French to Korean, Russian, Japanese, and more. Our interface supports English, French, Spanish, Arabic, Hindi, Kurdish, and Chinese. If you’re using a supported alphabet, you can of course write your form's questions in whatever language you like. If you would like to volunteer your skills to add an additional language to our interface, please get in touch with us!

## Who is behind KoBoToolbox?
KoBoToolbox is developed by the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative and led by co-founders [Phuong Pham](http://hhi.harvard.edu/people/phuong-pham) and [Patrick Vinck](http://hhi.harvard.edu/people/patrick-vinck), who created the first iteration of KoBoToolbox 2009 in response to their own research needs while working in the field. The team has since expanded to 4 full-time developers, a Product Manager, and two designers.

KoBoToolbox is funded entirely through generous grants and donations from [our partners](https://www.kobotoolbox.org/#partners).

## Who is KoBoToolbox for?

KoBoToolbox was built for human rights and humanitarian aid professionals but can be used to suit any of your research needs. Currently, our users range from city and state government officials, search and rescue teams, UN agencies, large and small NGOs, to business consulting and accounting firms.

## How much does KoBoToolbox cost?

It's completely free, forever. There are absolutely no hidden fees, no tiered plans, no premium features. From the moment you create an account, all users have access to the full suite of features available on our platform.

We believe that organizations, regardless of their ability to pay, should be able to collect data in a reliable, timely manner. Quickly collecting reliable information in a humanitarian crisis – especially following a natural disaster such as a large earthquake or a typhoon taking place in a poor country – is the critical link to saving the lives of the most vulnerable.

Commit message:

use Kobo everywhere instead of KoBo

source/welcome.md, after:

# Welcome to KoboToolbox
**Last updated:** <a href="https://github.com/kobotoolbox/docs/blob/cdd867e3c5466d18c5635dffa16cdf2ec894f933/source/welcome.md" class="reference">19 Jul 2020</a>

## What is KoboToolbox?

KoboToolbox is a suite of tools for field data collection for use in challenging environments. Our software is **free and open source** and **works both on and offline**. Most of our users are people working in humanitarian crises, as well as aid professionals and researchers working in developing countries. Our team of developers, designers, and researchers are based in Cambridge, MA and many other places around the world.

## What languages are supported?

You can create KoboToolbox projects in many languages, from French to Korean, Russian, Japanese, and more. Our interface supports English, French, Spanish, Arabic, Hindi, Kurdish, and Chinese. If you’re using a supported alphabet, you can of course write your form's questions in whatever language you like. If you would like to volunteer your skills to add an additional language to our interface, please get in touch with us!

## Who is behind KoboToolbox?
KoboToolbox is developed by the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative and led by co-founders [Phuong Pham](http://hhi.harvard.edu/people/phuong-pham) and [Patrick Vinck](http://hhi.harvard.edu/people/patrick-vinck), who created the first iteration of KoboToolbox 2009 in response to their own research needs while working in the field. The team has since expanded to 4 full-time developers, a Product Manager, and two designers.

KoboToolbox is funded entirely through generous grants and donations from [our partners](https://www.kobotoolbox.org/#partners).

## Who is KoboToolbox for?

KoboToolbox was built for human rights and humanitarian aid professionals but can be used to suit any of your research needs. Currently, our users range from city and state government officials, search and rescue teams, UN agencies, large and small NGOs, to business consulting and accounting firms.

## How much does KoboToolbox cost?

It's completely free, forever. There are absolutely no hidden fees, no tiered plans, no premium features. From the moment you create an account, all users have access to the full suite of features available on our platform.

We believe that organizations, regardless of their ability to pay, should be able to collect data in a reliable, timely manner. Quickly collecting reliable information in a humanitarian crisis – especially following a natural disaster such as a large earthquake or a typhoon taking place in a poor country – is the critical link to saving the lives of the most vulnerable.
